# Social Network Analysis project
## Introduction
---------------------------------------------
#### Since the introduction of online stream entertainment content by Netflix in 2007, the subscription video-on-demand (SVoD) industry has become increasingly competitive. Today, the average American subscribes to three video streaming services, and more established providers such as Netflix, Amazon and Hulu are facing growing competition from up-and-coming services such as HBO Now, or the anticipated Disney+.
#### In this context, video streaming entertainment providers are increasingly looking for ways to both attract subscribers and increase consumption on their platforms. Due to high costs associated with retaining popular content on such platforms, many providers are spending growing sums on producing their own content, although with varying degrees of success. At the same time, providers need to find ways to push the right internal or external content to the right consumer. With multiple platforms and entertainment options at their fingertips, consumers can lose interest within 60-90 seconds of trying to choose a movie to watch, and rarely review more than 10-20 titles (maybe 3 in detail). As such, offering relevant, customized content suggestions through recommender systems continues to enable platform success.
#### In an effort to effectively personalize recommender system content, industry leaders rely on a variety of algorithms to deliver content to users. For instance, both Netflix and Amazon Prime Video use hybrid techniques that produce recommendations based on consumer viewing patterns and broader content popularity on their platforms. These techniques have varying computation needs and result relevance. They benefit from continued optimization to drive meaningful impact on business metrics such as take rate (the fraction of recommendations offered resulting in a play) as well as broader goals of reducing churn to maintain subscriber growth and drive lifetime value.
#### To optimize recommender systems, companies must balance the need for recommendations that are as personalized and relevant to users as possible with the need for low cost solutions, i.e. those that can be delivered in real-time with limited processing needs. Consequently, this research focuses on quantifying the tradeoff between effective performance and cost efficiency of commonly used recommender system techniques.
#### Specifically, we have chosen to evaluate techniques by building recommender systems on movie ratings data from Netflix users. As an industry leader, Netflix has a rich collection of user preference data that can be used to assess these techniques, and has released such data in the past with the explicit goal of improving its recommender system through analysis by the broader data science community.
## Summary
------------------------------
#### The results suggested that an effective recommender system for online movie streaming should leverage collaborative filtering based on the Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) algorithm. This technique produces the best results on Netflix’s user data, well ahead of performance on other collaborative filtering techniques.
#### However, our research has some important limitations that are worth noting. Firstly, our study relies on a limited subset of data from a single year with additional restrictions placed on the minimum number of movie and user ratings. The applicability of our findings to broader datasets will need to be validated. Secondly, this research relied on publicly available data that was released in 2003, before Netflix introduced its online streaming capabilities or user-specific profiles within an account. Ideally, this study should be replicated on more recent data. Thirdly, our study is limited to a select number of collaborative filtering techniques, but other approaches such as content-based and hybrid techniques are worth evaluating as well. For future research, studies which offset some or all of these limitations could add substantial value.
